<!-- 3.104 Mobile Patient Identifier Cross-Reference Feed [ITI-104] -->

This section corresponds to transaction [ITI-104] of the IHE Technical Framework. Transaction [ITI-104] is used by the Patient Identity Source and Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager.

### 2:3.104.1 Scope

The scope is identical to [ITI TF-2: 3.8.1](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/TF/Volume2/ITI-8.html#3.8.1) .

### 2:3.104.2 Actor Roles

The roles in this transaction are defined in the following table and may be played by the actors shown here:

**Table 3.104.2-1: Actor Roles**

| Actor | Role |
|-------------------+--------------------------|
| Patient Identity Source   | Provides notification to the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager and Document Registry for any patient identification related events including: creation, updates, merges, etc. |
| Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager  | Serves a well-defined set of Patient Identification Domains. Based on information provided in each Patient Identification Domain by a Patient Identification Source Actor, it manages the cross-referencing of patient identifiers across Patient Identification Domains. |
{: .grid}

### 2:3.104.3 Referenced Standards

* HL7 FHIR : HL7<sup>®</sup> FHIR<sup>®</sup> standard <http://hl7.org/fhir/index.html>

### 2:3.104.4 Messages

<div>
{%include ITI-104-seq.svg%}
</div>

**Figure 3.104.4-1: Interaction Diagram**

#### 2:3.104.4.1 Add or Revise Patient

This message is implemented as an HTTP conditional update operation from the Patient Identity Source to the Patient Identifier
Cross-reference Manager described in Section 3.104.4.2.2 Message Semantics.

##### 2:3.104.4.1.1 Trigger Events

The Add Patient trigger event signals that a new patient was added to a Patient Identity Source.

The Revise Patient trigger event signals that patient information was revised in a Patient Identity Source (e.g., change in patient name, patient address, etc.).

The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager SHALL only perform cross-referencing logic on messages received from Patient Identity Source Actors. For a given Patient Identifier Domain there SHALL be one and only one Patient Identity Source Actor, but a given Patient Identity Source may serve more than one Patient Identifier Domain.

##### 2:3.104.4.1.2 Message Semantics

A Patient Identity Source initiates a FHIR request using Conditional Update as defined at [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update) on a Patient Resource.

A Patient Identity Source shall be able to send a request for either the JSON or the XML format as defined in FHIR. A Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manage shall be able to support the JSON and the XML format and support the conditional PUT operation.

##### 2:3.104.4.1.2.1 Patient Resource constraints

The identifier of the Patient Identification Domain of the Patient Identity Source SHALL be provided. The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall be capable of accepting attributes specified in [profile PIXm Patient](StructureDefinition-IHE.PIXm.Patient.html): `http://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/PIXm/StructureDefinition/IHE.PIXm.Patient`. If a Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager constrains additional attributes, it MAY constrain the PIXm Patient profile and reference this as a [supportedProfile](http://hl7.org/fhir/capabilitystatement-definitions.html#CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.supportedProfile) in the CapabilityStatement for the client to be query this information computable. 
##### 2:3.104.4.1.3 Expected Actions

Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager SHALL support the Conditional Update based on a patient identifier as outlined in http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update. The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager MAY create a resource id on a Conditional update/create but is not required to do so, there is no requirement on PIX Manager to managed identities, only to cross-correlate provided identifiers.

The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall be capable of accepting attributes specified in [profile PIXm Patient](StructureDefinition-IHE.PIXm.Patient.html): `http://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/PIXm/StructureDefinition/IHE.PIXm.Patient`. This is to ensure that the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager can handle a sufficient set of corroborating information in order to perform its cross-referencing function. 

The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall only recognize a single Patient Identity Source per domain.

The cross-referencing process (algorithm, human decisions, etc.) is performed within the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager, but its specification is beyond the scope of IHE.

Once the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager has completed its cross-referencing function, it shall make the newly cross-referenced identifiers available to PIX queries.

<div markdown="1" class="stu-note">

Open Issues 1: If the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager creates a "shadow copy" should this id be returned in pixm queries -> Propose yes <br />
Open Issues 2: Should a Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manage populate meta.source if it creates a "shadow copy"? -> Propose no: Leave it up to the implementer

</div>

##### 2:3.104.4.1.4 Response message

See [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#create](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#create) for response.

##### 2:3.104.4.1.5 Example

Add Patient [Alissa Mohr](Patient-Patient-MohrAlissa-Red.json.html):

<pre>
PUT http://example.org/fhir/Patient?identifier=urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000|IHERED-994 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/fhir+json
Content-Type: application/fhir+json
</pre>
For content body see [Patient Mohr Alissa Red](Patient-Patient-MohrAlissa-Red.json.html) example in identifier domain urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000 (Patient.id in resource is due to publication, needs to be omitted).

 Revise Patient [Alissa Mohr](Patient-Patient-MohrAlissa-Red.json.html) with updated demographics ([given name Alice instead of Alissa](Patient-Patient-MohrAlice-Red.json.html)):

<pre>
PUT http://example.org/fhir/Patient?identifier=urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000|IHERED-994 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/fhir+json
Content-Type: application/fhir+json
</pre>
For content body see [Patient Mohr Alice Red](Patient-Patient-MohrAlice-Red.json.html) example in identifier domain urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000. (Patient.id in resource is due to publication, needs to be omitted).


#### 2:3.104.4.2 Resolve Patient duplicate

This message is implemented as an HTTP conditional update operation from the Patient Identity Source to the Patient Identifier
Cross-reference Manager described in Section 3.104.4.2.2 Message Semantics.

##### 2:3.104.4.2.1 Trigger Events

The Revise Patient trigger signals that duplicate records were resolved in the Patient Identity Source.

A Resolve Patient duplicate message indicates that the Patient Identity Source has done a merge within a specific Patient Identification Domain. That is, the surviving identifier (patient ID) has subsumed a duplicate patient identifier.

##### 2:3.104.4.2.2 Message Semantics

A Patient Identity Source initiates a FHIR request using HTTP PUT as defined at [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update) on a Patient Resource.

A Patient Identity Source shall be able to send a request for either the JSON or the XML format as defined in FHIR. A Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manage shall be able to support the JSON and the XML format and support the conditional PUT operation.

##### 2:3.104.4.2.2.1 Patient Resource constraints

A link of type 'replaces' SHALL be added with the identifier pointing to the duplicate record. A second message with a link of type 'replaced-by' MAY be sent for the duplicate record with the identifier pointing to the surviving identifier.

##### 2:3.104.4.2.3 Expected Actions

The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall be capable of accepting attributes in the Duplicates Resolved message as specified in 3.104.4.2.2.2.1.

The Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall perform the Expected Actions similar to the ones specified in [ITI TF-2: 3.8.4.2.3](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/TF/Volume2/ITI-8.html#3.8.4.2.3). The particular behavior is described below.

When the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager receives the Resolve Patient duplicate message of the Patient Identity Feed transaction, it shall cross-reference the patient identifiers provided by replacing any references it is maintaining internally to the patient identifier provided in the 'replaces' link  by the patient identifier included in the Patient resource. After the identifier references are replaced, the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall reapply its internal cross-referencing logic/ policies before providing the updated information via the PIX Query transactions.

##### 2:3.104.4.2.4 Response message

See  [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#cond-update) for response.

##### 2:3.104.4.2.5 Example

Mark Patient [Maiden Alice](Patient-Patient-MaidenAlice-Red.json.html) as a duplicate of [Patient Mohr Alice](Patient-Patient-MohrAlice-Red.json.html)

<pre>
PUT http://example.org/fhir/Patient?identifier=urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000|IHERED-994 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/fhir+json
Content-Type: application/fhir+json
</pre>

For content body see [Patient Mohr Alice Red](Patient-Patient-MohrAliceSubsumeMaiden-Red.json.html) example in identifier domain urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000 which refers to resolved duplicate [Maiden Alice](Patient-Patient-MaidenAlice-Red.json.html). (Patient.id in resource is due to publication, needs to be omitted)

#### 2:3.104.4.3 Remove Patient 

This message is implemented as an HTTP conditional delete operation from the Patient Identity Source to the Patient Identifier
Cross-reference Manager described in Section 3.104.4.3.2 Message Semantics. The Patient Identifier
Cross-reference Manager indicates in the [CapabiltiyStatement](http://hl7.org/fhir/capabilitystatement-definitions.html#CapabilityStatement.rest.resource.conditionalDelete) if this message is supported.

##### 2:3.104.4.3.1 Trigger Events

The Remove Patient trigger signals that the records was removed in the Patient Identity Source.

A Removed Patient message indicates that the Patient Identity Source has removed a patient within a specific Patient Identification Domain. 

##### 2:3.104.4.3.2 Message Semantics

A Patient Identity Source initiates a FHIR request using HTTP DELETE as defined at [3.1.0.7.1 Conditional delete](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/http.html#3.1.0.7.1) on a Patient Resource.

A Patient Identity Source shall be able to send a request for either the JSON or the XML format as defined in FHIR. A Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manage shall be able to support the JSON and the XML format and support the conditional DELETE operation if it supports the Remove Patient message.

##### 2:3.104.4.3.3 Expected Actions

When the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager receives the Remove Patient message of the Patient Identity Feed transaction, it shall cross-reference the patient identifiers provided by removing any references it is maintaining internally to the patient identifier provided. After the identifier references are replaced, the Patient Identifier Cross-reference Manager shall reapply its internal cross-referencing logic/ policies before providing the updated information via the PIX Query transactions.

##### 2:3.104.4.3.4 Response message

See [3.1.0.7.1 Conditional delete](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/http.html#3.1.0.7.1) for the response.

##### 2:3.104.4.3.5 Example

Remove Patient [Maiden Alice](Patient-Patient-MaidenAlice-Red.json.html):

<pre>
DELETE http://example.org/fhir/Patient?identifier=urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.21367.13.20.1000|IHERED-994 HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/fhir+json
</pre>